# OSU_physics_OER
I. Abstract
Modern pedagogies for teaching physics require new curricular resources that go beyond what is offered by traditional textbooks. We will replace the required publisher’s textbook for calculus-based introductory physics with open-source, free-to-student text. We plan to survey existing resources and adopt those that best address our learning objectives via interactive learning, make the most use of modern technologies, and directly promote the inclusion of underrepresented populations. We will continuously monitor the implementation of these resources by checking directly with students to see that their needs are being met and by comparing student performance to longstanding baselines.

II. Project Description 
Recent innovations in physics education have produced reforms to our curriculum that have progressed much faster than our supporting resources. The long-term objective of our project is to help those supporting resources catch up to our modern curriculum. This grant represents the first step in that project: to replace the publisher’s traditional textbook with an open set of resources that (1) aligns with modern pedagogy, (2) incorporates diverse resource types, and (3) focuses on inclusion.

Align with Modern Pedagogy  
The primary commitment of our pedagogy is to engage students in the classroom. In particular, we view the classroom itself as the best place for students to interact with each other and the instructional team. Therefore, we typically use class time to ask students to think, consider, and solve problems, both independently and especially with their peers. Facilitating good in-class interactions with this model requires two things: an instructional team well-prepared in both content and pedagogical content knowledge, and students who are prepared to engage with course content (and each other) during class.
One method for helping students to prepare for such content is to address learning objectives by assigning pre-lecture readings, videos, and questions, evaluating student responses before class to identify understanding and misunderstanding of specific course content, and then targeting in-class activities and discussions to the identified understandings. (Such a pedagogical strategy is sometimes called just-in-time teaching or a flipped classroom, among other names.)
In adopting a pedagogy that devotes in-class time to activities, we have found that “content delivery” largely takes place outside of class in a way that does not necessarily match how traditional textbooks present physics content. In particular, a traditional textbook is often hard to intertwine with pre-class, in-class, and post-class activities, especially when those activities are multimodal (combining text, video, simulations, etc.). Instead, it is necessary to choose or develop educational resources such that they present a common thread that builds off each step in the process in a (usually) highly scaffolded way that does not tend to be available in a single textbook.

Diverse Resource Types
Traditional textbooks are long, dense, and not compartmentalized in a way that supports active engagement in the classroom. We have performed a preliminary textbook review and found no OER Introductory Calculus-based Physics options that provide short, focused blocks of text that pair with activities both in and out of the classroom. Furthermore, we intend to incorporate videos, simulations, and interactive questions, all threaded together to support a research-based curriculum. This ground-up approach to assembling a multimodal collection of OER will provide a more coherent curriculum that we believe will increase engagement and learning outcomes for all students. A more diverse set of resources increases the ways learners can engage and has been shown to increase outcomes for a wider range of people.
Text: We intend to choose excerpts of text from existing OER, and to create new content where no suitable text exists. These condensed readings, along with complementary videos, will prepare students for activities in lecture.

Video: Research partially funded by a previous Open Oregon State grant showed that Introductory algebra-based Physics (PH 20X) students who engaged with pre-lecture videos created specifically for the class tended to perform better in the class. This builds on previous research that showed no correlation with non-course-specific YouTube videos. We feel creating short, directed videos for our students, using our instructional team, will yield similar results for the PH 21X students. Where suitable, we intend to use existing videos created during emergency remote teaching, Ecampus PH 21X development, and/or from the large collection created for the PH 20X course where topics overlap. We also intend to use the Physics Department’s Lightboard studio to create new professional videos to round out the offering. These videos will seek to introduce topics, provide examples, and pair with prompting questions in pre- and post-class activities. This grant will help us create a minimum viable number of these videos and we intend to seek further funding to expand the offering. 

Simulations: An abundance of freely available simulations for physics exists. PhET is a flagship example of a long-term commitment to open-learning simulations in the physics education community. We would like to make better use of these existing simulations by incorporating them into our curriculum in a way that is seamless with the videos and text. 

Larger Reform Movement: Beyond the scope of this grant, but part of the larger picture of this reformed curriculum movement in the PH 21X series, is the creation of even more diverse activities and resources. This includes reflective and metacognitive activities, project-based learning experiences, and writing to communicate science. Furthermore, most of the people involved with this grant are also involved with an extensive lab reform effort, which will complement the modern curriculum for a more coherent experience. This grant will have a multiplier effect by supporting the holistic development of the larger curriculum, all while leveraging OER reform already implemented in the PH 20X series. 

Inclusion
The Physics community has a past that predominately included only white males. The community has been working for the past 20 years toward becoming more diverse. In 2000 the STEPUP report from the American Institute of Physics (AIP) laid the groundwork for institutional change promoting the inclusion of women in physics. One of the major outcomes of the report was that women do not feel at home when everyone around them, especially professors, are male. Many departments have been trying to address this, with some modest success, but it continues to be a major opportunity for improved inclusion. The other main finding of the report is that content and curriculum was historically designed for young, non-working, white males. This point has largely not been addressed. It was echoed in the more recent 2017 TEAM-UP project that focused on elevating the representation of African Americans in physics. In both cases the sections on actionable ways to improve outcomes had little advice on how to address the non-inclusivity of content and curriculum. It is only now with the upcoming 2021 Effective Practices for Physics Programs (EP3) report that significant attention is being made to address inclusive curriculum. One of the suggestions is the use of OER and mixed media.
OER has been shown to remove barriers to learning for marginalized people. Collating and building modularized mixed-media content allows more degrees of freedom for how students engage with study resources. It also allows the design team to focus on a diverse set of representations in the resources and to implement Universal Design principles for inclusion.

We intend to find and adopt a set of OER that support modern EBIP. The type of resources will be diverse (text, video, simulation) and modular for use in a host of classroom environments, from traditional, to distance learning, to hyflex modalities. The resources will be created by a diverse group of people, with us reaching out to the greater community to achieve greater inclusion. We will ensure that the content is accessible to all students and that it includes correct attribution in all instances. By choosing and developing more representative content, students will feel a greater sense of belonging in our classrooms, resulting on better outcomes.  

